this is my girlfriend's least favorite
kind of video to film with me
I've got like one minute of content I've
got wanted things I want to say and then
I kind of open it up for it of freestyle
dance or whatever yeah I think I think
you don't like does he feel like
pressure it's like if you don't like it
we'll just delete it or whatever it's no
big deal we just watched a privileged
vegan and Maxie two separate videos
talking about First Nations issues
indigenous peoples issues from from
being perspective so I think nobody has
ever asked me the question that
privileged vegan was responding to
privileged vegan was basically spawn
respond to the question well if you
preach veganism what is your position in
preaching veganism to American Indians
indigenous Canadians First Nations the
creepy a giblet den a whichever tribe or
review we want you want to talk about an
example so I've I've been in this
position I mean I she was not such I
don't think she suggested she has any
real-world experience of this this was
just textbook I think for both of the
women both Mexi and they were proceeding
but from in a pretty abstract way Mexi
may have met and spent time with some
some tonight people because she said she
was up at bath okay sorry Jasper
National Park one of them okay whatever
anyone but she's been doing some park
life she's been doing some Park living
so I you know I don't know but she
didn't mention any actual face-to-face
interactions people but sure I've been
in this position as someone who was
known to be vegan and veganism was a big
part of my life and it was studying the
Kree language primarily also doing other
stuff on other Algonquian languages like
the Soto dialect of jib white and then
also about history and politics and I'm
really primarily dressed in the future
politics these people not the past but
you got to study the past day of the
future look uh way back when I was a
normal age University students out of an
18 years old or something like that
I remember reading my first example of
ithi estas ofey and it was actually
really disturbing to me so my parents
both identified as atheist right but
even that
kind of fraught with ideological peril
in my family so my mother is an atheist
but she also is Jewish and the Judaism
and the family is really important the
Jewish identity and the memory of the
Holocaust and all this stuff and
politics of Israel and part of the
Jewish family is anti Zionist and part
of it is pro-zionist but they don't want
to admit to themselves of their pros I
guess so the Judaism what you know what
does it mean to be Jewish if you're
atheist you know I mean this this is
never resolved right and my father's
position on neighthan ISM and God in
religion was also more internally
contradictory than he wanted to admit to
himself or his children but officially
we were atheist so atheism in that sense
was the default position yes but very
rarely and under extraordinary
circumstances so yes I went to religious
I went to Jewish services yes with my
mother and sometimes for other kind of
unique reasons and yeah and I remember
actually my I made criticisms of the of
the Jewish herbs that meant a lot to my
mom there's some really interesting
discussions she had never kind of seen
things the way I did and I did read the
Bible and I did yeah my father really
encouraged me to go out and on my own
independently go to other religious
services to kind of take a survey of
them because I think he'd done that back
in the 1940s or 1950s so he was open and
was back in the day but I remember when
I tried that when I photos I was really
revolted but what I saw you know they
weren't doing animal sacrifice or
anything but I remember going to a
Unitarian Universalist Church and
thinking wow I hate this you know hate
you like hate you know what I mean like
I I really couldn't hang and somebody
inoffensive Anglican or you know other
Christians I really couldn't do it so
that was also interesting for me but no
I mean again my father having something
my spare but look I remember in
university the first time I read atheist
philosophy was the philosophy of Holbach
and helvetius so the Barone
hold on and there were a number of
things that were disturbing me about
that and is someone who grew up a theist
grew up presupposing atheism and you
know grew up in an era when the big hit
TV show was Seinfeld Seinfeld was a huge
hit and Seinfeld is a Jewish atheist you
know what I mean and most of the symbols
most of the kind of public intellectuals
across left-wing or right-wing in Canada
they were atheists are close to up we
didn't even have nominal Christians
really you know like on TV talking about
Paul this is the difference between the
u.s. and Canada Canada was way more
overtly atheistic so you know atheist
was resumed as evil in loves here these
guys
Holbach and helvetius really advancing
the the philosophy of atheism at a time
when it was it was very contentious and
one of the things that disturbed me most
of all I was really sitting there trying
to figure out what was so disturbing
about this the Barranca hobo was an
aristocrat in France in the years
immediately before the French Revolution
when among other things people thought
it was a great idea to take aristocrats
and you know cut off their head at the
neck using a guillotine simplification
of what happened here in the front row
but this was one feature of it the
French Revolution was in part and 80
aristocratic bloodbath and hobo is
himself an atheist and he's obviously
arguing philosophically that you the
reader of this book ought to be an
atheist right but he uh he's presupposes
that the masses the poor the peasants
will always believe in Christianity and
that in a sense they ought to you know
this is the the opiate of the masses
this is what makes them happy this is
what makes their lives of drudgery and
euro boys night and that really
disturbed me and it was really hard to
put a finger on it right now
this came up in two different countries
if you really believe in atheism I know
it sounds like a ridiculous that we
don't but you know what I mean if you
were sincere atheist I think you you
must believe that atheism isn't just
good for you it's good
your mother and your uncle and your
cousin people who you may know face that
you may know be very hard for them to be
this your mother or your uncle they may
be very attached to religion but still
you really believe if they could do it
it would better for them you think it's
better for your schoolteacher and the
janitor and the farmers and the peasants
and ultimately for everyone right and if
you don't I find that very disturbing
for that very difficult to define look
what kind of insane elitism is involved
or what kind of dehumanization like
don't like you know come on so the
barong the whole back I know he's an
aristocrat don't you know any peasants
don't you have any peasants who were
your friend like I'm not joking because
even in those kinds of unequal societies
these are the people you go farming with
you know you to some extent you do
business
you don't even if there is a big divide
socially between you don't need more you
could say oh yeah you know I know this
peasant called y'all and you know yeah I
mean he's a kind of bright guy and you
know he maybe he questions things about
the church maybe you know so look if if
you believe in veganism now what does
that mean
veganism is better for your personal
health it's better for the world's
ecology and it's better in terms of
ethics simplifying you got a friend you
know face to face who is a jib way or
cream if you know them I mean the vast
majority of Creon at you boy people all
the health says have seen struggle with
obesity I have I have met very
good-looking and healthy clean adroit
people but I've seen statistics they
have a huge obesity epidemic they have
huge health problems if you know someone
like that and you respect them
intellectually you work with them in
politics or whatever your situation it
however it is you you know these people
um if you don't have this kind of
aristocratic attitude of total
inequality atheism works for me but it
could never work for these people for
these peasants if you really know
veganism works for me you know what I
mean if you know that and you you
basically regard these people as your
equals in terms of intelligence and
human biology and everything else yeah
how are you not how are you not gonna
say to your friend
Jean not that I can we have a lot of you
know what if John is a Cree from James
Bay or something who speaks french let's
say you know how are we you not gonna
say you know Jean the you know if
there's an alternative it's my whole
there's an alternative what you're doing
again in terms of your nutrition terms
of ecology in terms of ethics and
everything else yeah in a privileged
vegans video she talks about how it's
not her place to make judgments about
Native American culture but I really
don't think that that's an aspect of it
I think you can still insist that they
go vegan or you know they see at least
suggested did you did you to your
friends that work reorge
yes but I want to answer the the
premiums Kate in many cultures I think
we would say it is not my place to
preach to my own mother that she ought
to be vegan in many cultures like
including like it's how Italian culture
to tell your mother
yeah it's disrespectful and you've seen
me talking my mama veganism like not
that much cuz I've been vegan for so
long you know it's not like the first
time I was explained to my mom but while
we've been together I mean I'm not I'm
not a complete [ __ ] about it but I
say to my mom you know you've seen it an
email you've seen it on skype and a
little bit face-to-face saw my mom
face-to-face the first time in 15 years
we were together but look if someone
said to me whether they came from a
traditional North African background or
an Italian background or you know some
Canadians or Americans might say hey you
can't you can't talk to your mother but
you'd that's not it's not your place to
say this to your mother they have a
point you know I'm not gonna say no
you're just wrong my joy what I mean my
relationship with my mother is unequal
you know I mean she gave birth to me and
she fed me a lot of non vegan foods
growing up meat so much you know
whatever you know sure you know that I
think there's a question there and you
know maybe you know I don't talk to my
mother the same way I talk to my
co-workers here at the University it's
true now but you know why so these are
human beings they live in the 21st
century like all the Korean AG way
people I know play video games they
Pizza and you know some of them do go
hunting once in a while you know white
people go hunting to like you know this
is this mystery another thing I mean
privilege vegans said just in passing
she just refer to Native people as as
living in harmony with with nature this
is in 2017 or maybe the videos 2016 but
it's a fairly recent video so 2017 oh
but you know whether it's 2016 or 2017 I
just freaked out when she said yeah
because because I mean melissa is
younger than mean this hasn't been as
big an issue in her life I paused the
video and I went to youtube I said look
I'm gonna show you the reality of what a
First Nations Reservation looks like
today which you're right I hadn't seen a
reservation but I had read descriptions
and you know what the just you know what
the land was like it and why would you I
mean there's no reason why you would
have been to a First Nations of vision
but my point was just look these people
they don't have Spears they're not
living in caves and you say they're
living in houses and they have shops and
they you know I mean the there are very
real struggles when you get into their
water supply and their sewage treatment
their access to health care and their
policing there one believe me I
appreciate and you know I wanted to
spend the rest of my life that what the
First Nations University to work on
those politically they have special
political problems but there's an exotic
inhere which is ultimately dehumanizing
now you know any but then this is what
we're talking about we're not talking
about an isolated tribe in Papua New
Guinea we're not talking about
hypothetical isolated tribe in the
Amazon rainforest in South America there
may be some other we're talking about
the Navajo and the den a and the Cree at
the achieve way and the Mohawk and you
know where they're at now in 2017 so so
the actual the actual wording you know
it's not it's not your place right and
then you just as usual did you you know
alright you know what kind of human
being would I be like you know I mean
like when you know people when you when
you're good so I'm going to class with
Cree energy way people and some Danai
people and some some Lakota people some
some some people from the dikko
different native people like you know if
one of them asks you for advice about
breaking up with their boyfriend like
there's some totally different rulebook
apply because they're First Nations we
be like well this is the advice I would
give a white why like it makes it makes
no sense to me now you don't keep the
other side of the conversation is
interesting because I did talk to you I
did talk to some person should be
support people were they raised it and
where they said that they really
appreciated vegetarianism was normal at
the term they used they didn't use term
vegan they really thought it was
important and they respected it sons
came up with context of Buddhism because
all of them are talking to a Buddhism
they're not a lot several you know it
happened several times that they knew
that the boma bathroom they wanted to
hear more about that you know not
something they have a lot of access to
growing up where they've grown up and
you know they would say things like you
know they really appreciate the kind of
ecological ethic behind vegetarianism
but at the same time they felt like the
trapline like going out and hunting on
the trapline was like their last
connection to their you know their
heritage and their ancestors and they
felt more than pull and that's and
that's real talk like you know what I
mean like you know obviously I respond
to that also like a human being I'm not
gonna throw it in their face yeah
absolutely but I suspect that most of
what they eat is not hunted of course
they eat in McDonald's yeah yeah actual
these are real people I knew I there was
a McDonald's right around the corner
from the university they ate at
McDonalds I know it for a fact it's not
like that's watched a documentary that
was mostly about the east Eastern Canada
yeah Native American I'm sorry first
nation in the strives yeah you know
there were parts of this documentary
that we're showing what somebody was
cooking in their house and it just
looked like typical American fairs you
know I guess Canadian fair thanks right
bacon
yeah so I know that's not yeah that's
not the norm you don't know look I mean
if if I had stayed on in First Nations
Paul that I've mentioned this in other
videos I would not have become a vegan
activist I would have been a First
Nations mostly language and education
activist the thing I probably become an
education activist probably more than
prison education and language education
and this kind of stuff but over the
probic of an education activist and
politics education activist for First
Nations who happens to be vegan you know
what I mean I mean there's definitely I
mean when you're talking about people
who have the the struggles they have
there is a question I mean well you know
veganism is not your first priority but
it would come up all the time with all
the people I work with em it's like most
vegans and most jobs if you work in a
shoe store everybody else in the shoe
store knows you're vegan you know what I
mean
now did you preach it to them I mean it
depends do they want to hear about it
you know if you're working on a
humanitarian project to help the curry
or the Ojibwe or to do prison education
or whatever it is people are gonna know
you're vegan you're gonna talk about it
and unless you have that aristocratic
mentality like oh this is not this is
not something for you peasants this is
something just for for me and people
like me yeah just recently you were
talking about I think living you know
generally living in Laos and Cambodia
you didn't expect people to respect that
you were vegan so I don't know did you
have that same attitude with when you
were interacting with creative people
you know I remember even when I was a
little kid I remember saying to my
teachers and once even to uh to a supply
teacher who was really freaking out the
supply teacher yelled at us he was on it
yeah she was on his way out of the
classroom and he said tell me sir why
don't you kids you know respect teachers
he was he so he was a temperature switch
eater and I said to him respect is
earned so I just met you like I've known
you for 45 minutes I said to respect sir
I had some particular snotty thing I
said it as a kid
you know it's it's not like ordering a
pizza I think I was literally what I
said - it's not look it's not like
ordering B's it doesn't get here in 30
minutes or it's free you know I said you
know respect isn't all right you can
tell what kind of us didn't know but you
know um you know that that cuts both
ways I don't like if I literally show up
you know remote village in Laos as part
of a humanitarian project I don't expect
them to respect me you know what I mean
and I've mentioned you mentioned YouTube
at least some of the things you know why
did people start to respect me because I
went out and chopped lumber with them
I carried lumber home I would have
participated in farming rice you know
what I mean I never did actually but
went over to the rice field it was just
not there at the right time or right
circumstance to participate in the
actual rice farming you know and that
all that was linked to the diet people
would say things like oh you know people
say things like oh I'll bet he eats a
lot of meat and then other people
working like no actually it's amazing
eats none at all really how much rice
does he and like I did I eat like twice
as much rice is that the Lao people was
working on and then they'd be like oh
well like um how much timber can he
carry I bet he can carry about twice as
much as enough they're like no he's
twice as much right he carries about a
third more or Timor's this is true you
know they were regarding me as like a
beast abut they were like evaluating me
like it like an ox like a domesticated
animal from really you know it was like
well if you feed him twice as much rice
can he lift twice as much lumber or
something
this is carrying carrying lumber up on
your shoulder you know so the weight the
weight ultimate is in your ankles so no
I can't I can't lift that much compared
to the the Lao farmers but yeah you know
but you you do that stuff you know you
you live that life with them of course I
was I was also teaching English you
don't seem Antarian mark you know I'm
very supposed to be you know a teacher
so maybe they respect you because you're
a teacher maybe they respect you a bit
because they see you doing the work they
see you trying and other stuff I did you
know what was also a pal a scholar I
know about history and Buddhism and this
ancient language so some people might
respect you for your scholarship they
just see you reading in a
this ancient scriptures but other things
I did like in one village this I didn't
say nothing to of the villages that did
humanitarian work on you know I climbed
up the side of a mountain or whatever a
big hill and I made a map of the town
you know I just used my you know limited
artistic skills to make a reason why
everybody and and everyone was blown
away by that these guys came around and
you know sorry I mean this is bizarre
like I can't say these are earth they
live in the jungle but all these people
have cell phones all of them have used
computers you don't I mean like you know
it's they all have motorcycles so this
is not like you know tribal jungle
people and some stairs have but I
remember those days coming really
studying the map just being really
impressed like wow you know and they'd
never seen a map but the town they lived
in you know I mean they thought of maps
is something only importance that he
said you know so you know what respect
is earned and I don't even in the
commentary on vegan gains and other
vegans and stuff and this kind of
fragility so many Canadians have who do
you you know don't you who I think you I
am you know who do you think you are and
this kinda thing I think when you go
into the situate why would these people
respect you you know what kind of
respect to you are you looking for
respect is earned and you you can you
can earn that respect and you know
reciprocally with that don't don't show
them any fake respect I mean yeah I'm
gonna respect someone just because
they're poor like if you're a part of
the Khmer the humanitarian project that
help the poor that's great but you know
don't there's there's there's still
human beings you know right I'm sure you
said you said it in this video already
like that you know why would you treat
them any differently if you're going to
recommend veganism to anybody else in
Canada why would you not recommend it to
native people especially when and also
you know she said like it's not our
place to evaluate the problems that are
in yeah on reservations why not like why
can't evaluate it yeah why can't we
you've got some great suggestions maybe
you could help yeah yeah and I I think
veganism is a really good suggestion for
yeah
because they're struggling with obesity
and I I know the type of food that they
have is very unhealthy so like you know
I'm sure they're but but also like you
know I think in the same way that if you
talk about recommending vegan as your
own mother
you're gonna deal with the particular
problems in your mother's situation so
my mother does have particular health
problems and I have problems with habit
and everything else you know what I mean
whenever you get to that level of phases
little sure like if you say you can
recommend veganism to native people the
same way you can any other person well
but by the same token they also have
unique circumstances that you don't I
mean all are also true of white people
on a face-to-face basis right you know I
mean like when you deal with a
particular person this is my mom this is
her situation this is her culture this
is her living situation or whatever
there may be particular problems you
know what I mean and for sure I mean
whether you're dealing with urban first
nations Cup which are now that the
majority of Native people they move to
cities to get jobs there are more creepy
'pl living in Vancouver Vancouver
British Columbia can than any other
point in the map in Canada and they're
not indigenous they're there they're
foreigners to that part of Canada but
because that's where there are jobs
that's were there opportunities so they
move to they move to Vancouver BC so you
know you get urbanization and then
they're living in the city the same as
white people
or if you're dealing with remote
reservations or what have you
sure and you know that sure there are
special considerations but that would be
true of any particular white person you
deal with face to face also yeah yeah
and you mentioned that was somewhat
dehumanizing to say this you know you
know Susan reference to atheist atheism
like this is what you read when you're
first entering college but it's not in
it's not in that way like the
religion is the opium of the masses like
the you know people are too stupid
really to be atheists like stupid people
need religion or something you know
people say this but it's kind of the
opposite for at least more I guess more
in Maxie's video saying that native
people are more angelic or something
like really they have this innate like
yeah came up in video that's a the
sustainability illusion right yeah right
that that yeah she was talking about it
Mex he was talking about the form of
government and you know was really
influenced by communists and like just
far left look people in Canada sure so
um yeah I don't know yeah I'm not gonna
tell you where you're going with it well
yeah I do think there is a there's a
parallelism you know the sustainability
Lucien you see that even in traditional
Chinese literature was reading your what
is it six records of a floating life and
so on you know there's this common thing
and varan the whole block is doing it
which I suppose like oh these people
their life has been unchanged for
centuries these people there's they're
living sustainably they're living in
harmony with nature you know um eating
bear meat eating the flesh of an apex
predator is that sustainable how look if
you have a tiny tiny population that's
constantly collapsing due to internecine
war due to outbreaks of plague you know
spread out over the land okay people I
guess people can eat their meat you know
what I mean but like you know we as
vegans don't think it's sustainable
it'll make sustainable enough for people
eat cow meat cows eat grass bears are an
apex carnivore do you really want to
glorify or defend a lifestyle of eating
apex predators eating bear meat eating
eagle meat sir
I've read direct descriptions of creepy
bleeding eagles also you know the sort
of that's a flesh-eating bird Falcons
and eagles in this kind of thing you
know but they virtually every animal on
the horizon you know what I mean
what is the utility this idea of
sustainability you know what I mean
I think it really is just this kind of
fetishization of the ring we can use a
left wing term like other ring you know
of a traditional lifestyle that's almost
irrelevant to the to the conversation
you know and I just wanna say I mean I
do have sympathy with the yearning to
maintain cultural traditions and I do
have something when I talk to you know
Korean aji away people who said like
well they feel like this is the only
contact AB with their tradition that's
really sad but you know what there are
other forms of meaningful contact with
the tradition like the language which is
a lot of hard work like really gaining
fluency and ability in a native language
like Korea Raja where Mohawk right
that's very meaningful like you know
sculpting like sculpture you know like
even the religion anonyme reviving the
traditional religion like the music
anatoly's I went to protests where we
had native people playing the drum but
nobody could sing any lyrics and Creed
the music is linked to the language if
the music is gonna be meaningful you
have to actually you know speak in
practice language is very powerful form
language practice to you know to learn
and recite lyrics there's there's a lot
here that can be meaningful on course
history and politics there are so many
things that can be meaningful and you
know for sure I mean I'd like to imagine
in the future at least some native
groups will be confident enough in that
identity and feel they have a lot of
meaningful connection that heritage
without having to kill a bear and eat
its flesh you know
but you know that that's my positive
aspiration and I have had conversations
like that face-to-face with First
Nations people who thought it was a
really interesting and fresh perspective
because of course a lot of what they're
used to hearing is really just
condescending insincere from
left-wing right be I'm going with its
thinking you know of course I'm not
making excuses for what you know what
colonialism and the genocide that
happened but you know this this making
native and indigenous people in North
America ought to be angels it's also
like it's pretty ignorant to think that
they wouldn't just because they hadn't
reached a certain level of development
in their civilizations like to think
that they wouldn't have reached this
level of unsustainability as well time
well you know in what you know what are
their are their cultures that have
maintained sustainability like look' I
think I think in general I mean you know
if if you don't have a culture that
actually reifies sustainability favorite
or you know if there isn't a conscious
you know awareness of sustainability
because you know history of Easter
Island if you've never heard of Easter
Island please Google a check a Wikipedia
article indigenous people who DeForest
at the island destroyed their ecology
their population collapse to attorney
the island could could no longer support
the population that was on it right in
general the the history of the ancient
civilizations of the of the Near East
sorry the most the most ancient
Mesopotamia I but gave my students less
than this but now I'm forgetting up you
know this is the oldest the oldest
civilization to achieve urban
populations and so on you know
you know and the deforestation and then
silt in the rivers and what have you you
know unsustainable farming practices I
you know very broadly speaking the
growth of the Sahara in North Africa the
destruction of what used to be
inhabitable land that included not the
cattle grazing cattle grazing was a huge
part of the destruction in ancient
ancient times you know the expansion of
this desert and transformation of of
northern Africa northern Africa
everyone everyone knows that that's
where human beings evolved but now it
doesn't support human life so it's a
great irony that's that's where the
actual species were a member of but we
destroyed our own homeland in an
ecologic level so I mean ancient peoples
pre-modern people's to call it
sustainable when they themselves aren't
pursuing sustainability if you're
talking about sustainability that's
that's but it may be achieved from us
because of plague because of war because
of just low population you know again
and again and I mean anyway even that
figuring out what were the population
levels before they were decimated by
Europeans are very very difficult map to
do a very interesting research to do by
the way but you know we did have
examples of native peoples living in in
urban populations but you know I just
say it I guess it would be something
like you know racial harmony okay I mean
like do you really want to describe
ancient Egypt as having racial harmony
or do we want to say they they regarded
ethnic differences in a different way
than ourselves you know I mean like what
you know if you're not if they from
their perspective aren't actually
espousing and pursuing a philosophy of
whether it's cosmopolitanism or racial
harmony or sustainability or
what-have-you to a sign if roosevelt
perspective there's an etic versus emic
distinction here that is I think a bit
problematic to use a word our friends on
the left will all recognize it's it's
problematic
yeah but no I mean what in what sense
you know eating bear in what sense is
eating there you know sustained
and you know again if you know those
people if they're your friends if
they're having heart attacks and they're
getting cancer and they're struggling
with obesity and they're asking you well
what do you do comes up again you work
in a shoe store everybody the shoe store
knows you're vegan you know I mean even
if you don't preach it
you know I've mentioned that before I'm
like being gay you know you may have you
can be gay and your co-workers don't
know you're gay when you're vegan
everybody knows you're vegan you know
every time they go to a coffee shop with
you you say no no I don't do milk only
do soy milk with it you know I mean
whatever your situation is comes up all
the time
so if you share your life with Native
people if you're doing anything positive
for Native people are with Native people
and you just treat them as your equals
then inevitably you're gonna have those
conversations with them as equals and
you're gonna give them approximately the
same advice you'd give a white person
with the differences being the same type
of differences between the advice you
give your mom and the advice you give
your uncle or the advice you give your
coworker you know that maybe there are
some differences but they are
idiosyncratic in the and the truest
sense the word